Autopilot 1.3.0 docs (#914)
portworx/pxdocs: content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/autopilot/how-to-use/approvals/walkthrough/_index.md

---
title: "Action approvals using kubectl"
linkTitle: "Approvals using kubectl"
keywords: autopilot
description: Instructions on how to enable approvals for actions resulting from autopilot rules using kubectl and the ActionApproval CRD
series: aut-approval-walkthroughs
noicon: true
weight: 100
---

> ## Pre-requisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

* Autopilot 1.3.0 and above

## Overview 

> The high workflow of using an AutopilotRule with approvals enabled would be as follows. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general workflow of using an AutopilotRule with approvals enabled consists of the following:
```

1. Create AutopilotRule with approvals enabled
2. Approve or Decline the action by using the ActionApproval CRD

> Now let's look at above 2 steps in detail. The [Example](#Example) section later will cover a detailed working example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general workflow expands to the following steps:
```

1. Create an AutopilotRule with `enforcement: approvalRequired`  in the spec
2. Wait till the conditions in the rule to be met on the objects. For example, if the rule is to expand a volume when it's usage is greater than 50%, wait for this condition.
3. Once the conditions are met, list of the action approvals in the namespace. Identity the item in the list for the concerned object.
4. Update the `approvalState` field in the ActionApproval object spec to `approved` or `declined`
5. Based on whether you approved or declined in the previous step, the action will either proceed or get declined respectively.

## Example

> The example below will cover an AutopilotRule to expand postgres PVCs whose usage increases more than 50%. The rule will require approvals before any action to expand the PVC can take place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below covers an AutopilotRule to expand Postgres PVCs whose usage increases more than 50%. The rule will require approvals before any action to expand the PVC can take place.
```

### Create specs

#### Application and PVC specs

> First, create the storage and application spec files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the storage and application spec files:
```

> 1. Create `namespace.yaml` and place the following content inside it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create `namespace.yaml` and place the following content inside it:
```

    ```text
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Namespace
    metadata:
      name: pg1
      labels:
        type: db
    ```

> 2. Create `postgres-sc.yaml` and place the following content inside it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create `postgres-sc.yaml` and place the following content inside it:
```

    ```text
    ##### Portworx storage class
    apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
    kind: StorageClass
    metadata:
      name: postgres-pgbench-sc
    provisioner: kubernetes.io/portworx-volume
    parameters:
      repl: "2"
    allowVolumeExpansion: true
    ```

> 3. Create `postgres-vol.yaml` and place the following content inside it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create `postgres-vol.yaml` and place the following content inside it:
```

    ```text
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    apiVersion: v1
    metadata:
      name: pgbench-data
      labels:
        app: postgres
    spec:
      storageClassName: postgres-pgbench-sc
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 10Gi
    ---
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    apiVersion: v1
    metadata:
      name: pgbench-state
    spec:
      storageClassName: postgres-pgbench-sc
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 1Gi
    ```

> 4. Create`postgres-app.yaml` and place the following content inside it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create`postgres-app.yaml` and place the following content inside it:
```

                value: superpostgres
              - name: PGBENCH_PASSWORD
                value: superpostgres
              - name: PGDATA
                value: /var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
              volumeMounts:
              - mountPath: /var/lib/postgresql/data
                name: pgbenchdb
            - name: pgbench
              image: portworx/torpedo-pgbench:latest
              imagePullPolicy: "Always"
              env:
                - name: PG_HOST
                  value: 127.0.0.1
                - name: PG_USER
                  value: pgbench
                - name: SIZE
                  value: "8"
              volumeMounts:
              - mountPath: /var/lib/postgresql/data
                name: pgbenchdb
              - mountPath: /pgbench
                name: pgbenchstate
          volumes:
          - name: pgbenchdb
            persistentVolumeClaim:
              claimName: pgbench-data
          - name: pgbenchstate
            persistentVolumeClaim:
              claimName: pgbench-state
    ```

####  AutopilotRule spec

Once you've created your storage and application specs, you can create an AutopilotRule that controls them.

> Create a YAML spec for the autopilot rule named `autopilotrule-approval-example.yaml` and place the following content inside it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a YAML spec for the autopilot rule named `autopilotrule-approval-example.yaml` and place the following content inside it:
```

Author: The `1.` isn't required here since it's a single step. In other words, there are no subsequence steps in this section

```text
apiVersion: autopilot.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1
kind: AutopilotRule
metadata:
  name: volume-resize
spec:
  #### enforcement indicates that actions from this rule need approval
  enforcement: approvalRequired
  ##### selector filters the objects affected by this rule given labels
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: postgres
  ##### namespaceSelector selects the namespaces of the objects affected by this rule
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      type: db
  ##### conditions are the symptoms to evaluate. All conditions are AND'ed
  conditions:
    # volume usage should be less than 50%
    expressions:
    - key: "100 * (px_volume_usage_bytes / px_volume_capacity_bytes)"
      operator: Gt
      values:
        - "50"
  ##### action to perform when condition is true
  actions:
  - name: openstorage.io.action.volume/resize
    params:
      # resize volume by scalepercentage of current size
      scalepercentage: "100"
      # volume capacity should not exceed 400GiB
      maxsize: "400Gi"
```

### Apply specs

> Once you've designed your specs, deploy them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've designed your specs, deploy them:
```

```text
kubectl apply -f autopilotrule-approval-example.yaml
kubectl apply -f namespace.yaml
kubectl apply -f postgres-sc.yaml
kubectl apply -f postgres-vol.yaml -n pg1
kubectl apply -f postgres-app.yaml -n pg1
```

### Approve the action

> #### First wait till conditions are triggered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Wait until conditions are triggered
```

> After you apply the specs above, postgres will start populating data to the PVC. Once Autopilot detects that the volume usage is greater than 50%, it will create an ActionApproval object in the pg1 namespace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you apply the specs above, Postgres will start populating data to the PVC. Once Autopilot detects that the volume usage is greater than 50%, it will create an ActionApproval object in the pg1 namespace. 
```

> You can list the Kubernetes events for this rule and wait until your rule is in the _ActionAwaitingApproval_ state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List the Kubernetes events for this rule and wait until your rule is in the _ActionAwaitingApproval_ state.
```

```text
kubectl get events --field-selector involvedObject.kind=AutopilotRule,involvedObject.name=volume-resize -n default -w
```
```output
LAST SEEN   TYPE     REASON       OBJECT                        MESSAGE
10m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Initializing => Normal
67s         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Normal => Triggered
34s         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Triggered => ActionAwaitingApproval
```

If you only see `Initializing => Normal` as the event, this means postgres is still writing data to your volume and usage has not crossed 50%.

#### Approve

> Now list the `actionapproval` for this object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. List the `actionapproval` for this object:
```

```text
kubectl get actionapproval -n pg1
```
```output
NAME                                                     APPROVAL-STATE
volume-resize-pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e   pending
```

> Patch and approve the actionapproval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Patch and approve the actionapproval:
```

```text
kubectl patch actionapproval -n pg1 volume-resize-pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"approvalState":"approved"}}' 
```
```output
actionapproval.autopilot.libopenstorage.org/volume-resize-pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e patched
```

> Once approved, you will see that the actions will progress. Let's list the events again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Once approved, you will see that the actions will progress. List the events again:
```

```
```output
LAST SEEN   TYPE     REASON       OBJECT                        MESSAGE
19m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Initializing => Normal
10m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Normal => Triggered
9m47s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Triggered => ActionAwaitingApproval
8m52s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActionAwaitingApproval => ActiveActionsPending
7m51s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActiveActionsPending => ActiveActionsInProgress
7m20s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActiveActionsInProgress => ActiveActionsTaken
```
 

> To decline, you should use _declined_ instead of _approved_ in the patch command.

Reviewer: Should we split this out into a new section as we did before?

Author: done

---
title: "Action approvals using kubectl"
linkTitle: "Approvals using kubectl"
keywords: autopilot
description: Instructions on how to enable approvals for actions resulting from autopilot rules using kubectl and the ActionApproval CRD
series: aut-approval-walkthroughs
noicon: true
weight: 100
---

## Prerequisites

* Autopilot 1.3.0 and above

## Overview 

The general workflow of using an AutopilotRule with approvals enabled consists of the following:

1. Create AutopilotRule with approvals enabled
2. Approve or Decline the action by using the ActionApproval CRD

The general workflow expands to the following steps. The Example section later will cover a detailed working example.

1. Create an AutopilotRule with `enforcement: approvalRequired`  in the spec

> 2. Wait till the conditions in the rule to be met on the objects. For example, if the rule is to expand a volume when it's usage is greater than 50%, wait for this condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Wait until the objects meet the conditions specified in the rule. For example, if the rule is to expand a volume when it's usage is greater than 50%, wait for this condition.
```

3. Once the conditions are met, list of the action approvals in the namespace. Identity the item in the list for the concerned object.

> 4. Update the `approvalState` field in the ActionApproval object spec to `approved` or `declined`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Update the `approvalState` field in the ActionApproval object spec to `approved` or `declined`.
```

5. Based on whether you approved or declined in the previous step, the action will either proceed or get declined respectively.

## Example

> The example below covers an AutopilotRule to expand Postgres PVCs whose usage increases more than 50%. The rule will require approvals before any action to expand the PVC can take place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates an AutopilotRule that expands Postgres PVCs whose usage increases more than 50%. The rule will require approvals before any action to expand the PVC can take place.
```

1. Create `namespace.yaml` and place the following content inside it:

    ```text
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Namespace
    metadata:
      name: pg1
      labels:
        type: db
    ```

2. Create `postgres-sc.yaml` and place the following content inside it:

    ```text
    ##### Portworx storage class
    apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
    kind: StorageClass
    metadata:
      name: postgres-pgbench-sc
    provisioner: kubernetes.io/portworx-volume
    parameters:
      repl: "2"
    allowVolumeExpansion: true
    ```

3. Create `postgres-vol.yaml` and place the following content inside it:

    ```text
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    apiVersion: v1
    metadata:
      name: pgbench-data
      labels:
        app: postgres
    spec:
      storageClassName: postgres-pgbench-sc
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 10Gi
    ---
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    apiVersion: v1
    metadata:
      name: pgbench-state
    spec:
      storageClassName: postgres-pgbench-sc
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 1Gi
    ```

> 4. Create`postgres-app.yaml` and place the following content inside it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create`postgres-app.yaml` and place the following content inside it. Note the following:
```

>     The application in this example is a [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) database with a [pgbench](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/pgbench.html) sidecar. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The application in this example is a [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) database with a [pgbench](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/pgbench.html) sidecar. 
```

>     The `SIZE` environment variable in this spec instructs pgbench to write 8GiB of data to the volume. Since the PVC is only 10GiB in size, Autopilot will resize the PVC when needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The `SIZE` environment variable in this spec instructs pgbench to write 8GiB of data to the volume. Since the PVC is only 10GiB in size, Autopilot will resize the PVC when needed.
```

spec:
  #### enforcement indicates that actions from this rule need approval
  enforcement: approvalRequired
  ##### selector filters the objects affected by this rule given labels
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: postgres
  ##### namespaceSelector selects the namespaces of the objects affected by this rule
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      type: db
  ##### conditions are the symptoms to evaluate. All conditions are AND'ed
  conditions:
    # volume usage should be less than 50%
    expressions:
    - key: "100 * (px_volume_usage_bytes / px_volume_capacity_bytes)"
      operator: Gt
      values:
        - "50"
  ##### action to perform when condition is true
  actions:
  - name: openstorage.io.action.volume/resize
    params:
      # resize volume by scalepercentage of current size
      scalepercentage: "100"
      # volume capacity should not exceed 400GiB
      maxsize: "400Gi"
```

### Apply specs

Once you've designed your specs, deploy them:

```text
kubectl apply -f autopilotrule-approval-example.yaml
kubectl apply -f namespace.yaml
kubectl apply -f postgres-sc.yaml
kubectl apply -f postgres-vol.yaml -n pg1
kubectl apply -f postgres-app.yaml -n pg1
```

> ### Approve the action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Approve or decline the action
```

After you apply the specs above, Postgres will start populating data to the PVC. Once Autopilot detects that the volume usage is greater than 50%, it will create an ActionApproval object in the pg1 namespace. 

List the Kubernetes events for this rule and wait until your rule is in the _ActionAwaitingApproval_ state.

```text
kubectl get events --field-selector involvedObject.kind=AutopilotRule,involvedObject.name=volume-resize -n default -w
```
```output
LAST SEEN   TYPE     REASON       OBJECT                        MESSAGE
10m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Initializing => Normal
67s         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Normal => Triggered
34s         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Triggered => ActionAwaitingApproval
```

If you only see `Initializing => Normal` as the event, this means postgres is still writing data to your volume and usage has not crossed 50%.

> #### Approve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Approve the action
```

    ```
    ```output
    LAST SEEN   TYPE     REASON       OBJECT                        MESSAGE
    19m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Initializing => Normal
    10m         Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Normal => Triggered
    9m47s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from Triggered => ActionAwaitingApproval
    8m52s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActionAwaitingApproval => ActiveActionsPending
    7m51s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActiveActionsPending => ActiveActionsInProgress
    7m20s       Normal   Transition   autopilotrule/volume-resize   rule: volume-resize:pvc-3906b3ed-5a3c-4c69-a737-9ddd748cfe8e transition from ActiveActionsInProgress => ActiveActionsTaken
    ```
 

> #### Decline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Decline the action
```
